# Documents & Fields

## Field

`Field` is a typed represenation of MongoDB document field. It serves
as a generator for a number of mutations, e.g. setting a key-value in
a $dbobject$, queries and update modifiers. It provides a convenient
extractor for the document field as well to ease extracting field
contents using pattern matching. A _field_ may be created in a number
of ways:

```scala
val f = Field[Int]("key")
// is the same as
val f = "key".fieldOf[Int]
```

## Document

`Subset` is a typed representation of MongoDB nested documents. It has
a name (since a subdocument is stored under a key in $dbobject$). A
type of _subset_ is not neccesarily `T`, it could be e.g. `List[T]` if
an array of sub-documents is stored under this particular key, or
`Map[String,T]` if it is a nested key-value map where subdocuments are
stored as values -- you should get the idea. Every `Subset` inherits
from `Field`, so that all the `Field` methods work for `Subset` as well.

`Subset` requies a _field container_ as well, it is an object of your
choice and most typically it serves as a container for the
sub-document fields. It will be used when creating queries and update
modifiers in "dot notation" (e.g. `{"subdoc.inner": {\$set: "value"}}`)

```scala
object Subdoc {
  val inner = "inner".fieldOf[String]
}

val subdoc = "subdoc".subset(Subdoc).of[DBObject]
```

> It makes sense to specify `T` of a `Subset` to the classes or case
> classes which may be serialized into `DBObject` or `DBObject`
> itself. For example, it makes no sense to create a `Subset` of type
> `String`.

* Scaladoc on [`Field`]($apiUrl$#com.osinka.subset.Field)
* Scaladoc on [`Subset`]($apiUrl$#com.osinka.subset.Subset)

* * *
